Add Backward Compatibility Testing documentation (#10)
vmware-tanzu/tanzu-plugin-runtime: test/BACKWARD_COMPATIBILITY.md

# Backward Compatibility Testing documentation

## Summary

Compatibility Test Framework provides test helper functions to write compatibility test cases.

Test writer is responsible for writing the go tests using the framework provided helper methods.
As a test writer you should be knowledgeable on specific APIs and specific Runtime libraries i.e. what arguments each API takes and what it returns.
Test writers should also be familiar with how to write combination tests with multiple APIs i.e. when testing mutators and reader APIs together.

> For Example:-  Running SetContext alone in the test will not be a good test as it does not validate the actual context that is set in the config yaml file. But when SetContext is combined with GetContext/ GetCurrentContext making the tests more solid.

Author: Yea make sense  updated to include generic statements

When writing a test involving two versions of Runtime library APIs a test writer should be aware of what specific fields are added or removed from the API method for those 2 versions and design tests accordingly.

### Commands

Run all `****_test.go` files from `compatibility-tests` directory.

``` shell
make backward-compatibility-tests
```

### How are the Tests being run ?

> The tests are executed as a GitHub runner CI pipeline that executes the below command.

Reviewer: This section is not particularly useful (and can be pretty much assumed). I was hoping for some information on what to look for in terms of what tests are run, and how the results are presented. Please take a note and we can iterate on this later.

```

More details about input parameters for above high level api:

``` go
const (
  Version0110 RuntimeVersion = "v0.11.0"
  Version0250 RuntimeVersion = "v0.25.0"
  Version0280 RuntimeVersion = "v0.28.0"
  Version100 RuntimeVersion = "v1.0.0"
)

type RuntimeVersion string

type RuntimeAPIVersion struct{
 RuntimeVersion RuntimeVersion
}

type GetContextInputOptions struct {
 RuntimeAPIVersion // required
 ContextName string // required
}

type GetContextOutputOptions struct{
 RuntimeAPIVersion // required
 CtxOptions // For specific version options look into CtxOptions definition
}

type SetContextInputOptions struct{
 RuntimeAPIVersion // required
 CtxOptions // required
}

type SetContextOutputOptions struct{
 error string // expected error message could be the sub string of actual error message
}

type DeleteContextInputOptions struct{
 RuntimeAPIVersion // required
 ContextName string // required
}

type DeleteContextOutputOptions struct{
 error string // expected error message could be the sub string of actual error message
}
```

### xxxOptions structs

> - These structs are super set of parameters for respective configs like Context, Server, DiscoverySources etc. for all Runtime Versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each of these struct represents the super set of all fields for their respective config types (e.g .Context, Server, DiscoverySource) across for all Runtime versions in which the types are defined.
```

Author: updated

- Based on the Runtime Version xxxOptions attributes may change(mandatory/optional/Not applicable).
- It is meant to be used as both inputOptions and outputOptions.
- Command Creation Helper functions (i.e. NewSetContextCommand) validate the supplied inputOptions as per RuntimeVersion and make sure all required attributes are set. If not Command Creation Helper functions will throw error and Test fails.
- The validation of “Input and expect output” happens in  Set/Get/DeleteXXXCommand creation (within framework.NewTestCase), so it's not part of test case execution. so its kind of test case setup.

> - Input struct: Framework validates only Input data (eg: GetContextInputOptions/SetContextInputOptions/DeleteContextInputOptions) as its required to make runtime api call,

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean here. Are you saying that framework validates only the parts of the input data that are required to make a particular version of the API call, and ignores any other information?

Author: Re phrased the sentence to `- Input struct: Framework validates the supplied Input data (eg: GetContextInputOptions/SetContextInputOptions/DeleteContextInputOptions) as per specified runtime version supported fields.
`

- Output struct: Framework validates the supplied outputOptions as per specified runtime version whether certain fields are supported for the runtime version used and compares the supplied data with what is returned from API method i.e. every non-null field in output struct will be checked for equality with returned result.
  (Eg: GetContextOutputOptions/SetContextOutputOptions/DeleteContextOutputOptions) as its test writer responsibility, the Output data is depends on the Input data (eg: if input is not valid, runtime api may return error) OR the sequence of calls made before the current call (eg: NewGetContextCommand() output depends on the previous SetContext** calls).
  If test writer is not passing valid expected output data, then it fails during the TEST CASE EXECUTION as test case fail.

> - Test framework does validate the Output struct’s null and non-null values with runtime api response.

Reviewer: I am not sure what this means. If the framework does not validate the output's null and non-null values against the API response, does it validate _anything_ about the output at all?

Author: Rephrased the statement to `- Test framework does validate the expected Output struct’s field values with runtime api response to its entirety.
`
